Project Report: 
Project Member Hire and Official Project Meet: The project BOLERO started with the appointment of the postdoc Dr. Gaurav Sablok on 15th January, 2024 at the Bioinformatics Department, University of Potsdam. Upon arrival, Dr. Sablok had a Zoom discussion with Dr. Manuel Ruiz and Dr. Gaetan Droc from CIRAD, who will strongly collaborate in the context of pangenome assembly.  
 Since data are already in sequencing phase (Nestle), Dr. Sablok started to generate the pipelines necessary for the pangenomic analysis; in addition, since metagenomics data play a central role in BOLERO, particularly in the context of metabolic model development, Dr. Sablok has also been involved in setting up the computational pipelines for metagenomics analysis. The complete pipeline for analysis of the genomes and the pangenome is in the process of generation following complete layout for the project BOLERO. The latter is available for the visualization and all of the code are the final release version, tested with a datasets from CIRAD. The first code: https://github.com/sablokgaurav/genome_pangenome_sra-explorer uses a regular expression and a native brace expression to explore the sra and this was needed to allow for the efficient data mining and for the comparative analysis. 
There are two approaches to address the pangenome: a whole genome based graph pangenome and a gene based pangenome. Dr. Sablok has finalized the establishment of the pipelines for gene based pangenome construction (for the corresponding code are:  https://github.com/sablokgaurav/pangenome_evolutionary_analysis and https://github.com/sablokgaurav/pangenome_single_copy_gene_analysis). To supplement these developments, Dr. Sablok developed tools for visualization of the pangenomes and a standalone streamlit web application (see  https://github.com/sablokgaurav/pangenome_visualization_utilities). For the assembly of the pangenome, we have been standardizing the approaches for the PacBioHifi  and the Oxford Nanopore data (see https://github.com/sablokgaurav/pangraphs_long_read_genome_assembly), allowing the assembly of the genomes, genome polishing and the comparative assessment of the genomes. To supplement the graph based pangenome Dr. Sablok also coded a new python package called as graphanalyzer: https://github.com/sablokgaurav/graphanalyzer, which analyses all types of the graph alignments and the connections from the graph genome. 
 Dr. Sablok started implementing the genome analysis and finished the first analysis for the PacbIo hifi reads coming from a sample datasets to integrate and check the assurance of the developmental computational pipeline. Dr. Sablok has evaluated three state of the art methods for the PacBioHifi assembly such as Verkko, HifiASM, genomeASM4pg and the results from the Verkko for one of the indiviual is given below. The results are still running and as soon as we have the results from the computer cluster, we shall be able to make a conclusion on the genome assembly computational pipeline, which we will take further. To scaffold the genome, we further used RagTag along with the previous reference genome. BUSCO evaluation shows more than 99.3% complete genes, whilst only 1 BUSCO gene missing, which presents us the suitability and the performance of the computational pipeline. Sample of the working code and the coverage files are attached along with the report for the further exploration. 
Genome assembly: The integrated computational pipeline that Dr. Sablok has been developing is represented below:
BUSCO
C:99.3%[S:14.8%,D:84.5%],F:0.2%,M:0.5%,n:425 422 Complete BUSCOs | 63  Complete and single-copy BUSCOs (S) | 359    Complete and duplicated BUSCOs (D) | 1 Fragmented BUSCOs (F) | 2 Missing BUSCOs (M)  |  425    Total BUSCO groups searched (C).|        
RAGTAG
placed_sequences | placed_bp |  unplaced_sequences |  unplaced_bp | gap_bp  gap_sequences
1758 | 699274195 | 5059 | 360235834 | 173600 | 1736                                                                                                                            
Additional Genome Summary
summary <- function(hifiinfile, coverage){
    readdf <- read.csv(hifiinfile, sep = "\t")
    return (length(readdf[readdf["coverage"] > coverage])) 
} summary("ERR10930361ASM_assembly.hifi-coverage.csv", 100) -> total 4137 scaffolds with coverage more than 100. 
summarylength <- function(hifiinfile, scaffoldlength){
    readdf <- read.csv(hifiinfile, sep = "\t")
    return (length(readdf[readdf["length"] > length])) 
} summarylength("ERR10930361ASM_assembly.hifi-coverage.csv", 5000) -> total 20505 scaffolds with coverage more than 5000bp.
Plan ahead: We are implementing new pipelines as well as package development to create the genome and metagenomics assemblies along with the pangenomes. 

